README.md, before:


# Analyzing Health Insurance Data Stored in a PL/SQL MySQL Database

## Project Overview:

This repository was created for the INFO 606 course at Drexel University, Advanced Database Management.  The overall goal of this project was to use Python to analyze health insurance data stored in a PL/SQL database.  This goal was achieved by creating a MySQL database using [Heroku](https://heroku.com) and ClearDB.  This repository contains SQL scripts to create the database locally.  Ensure the MySQL connection string matches your local database.  

## File Manifest: 

- `Folder /documents` - Cotains all miscellaneous documents
- `Folder /sql_scripts` - Contains all SQL scripts for creating database in MySQL Workbench.
    - `step01_ddl.sql` - SQL script to create relational database schema.
    - `step02_insert_data.sql` - SQL script to populate database tables.
- `health_insurance.ipynb` - Main Python/SQL code that analyzes insurance MySQL data.

## Reason for Project:



## Team Members:

Our team consisted of the following individuals (alphabetized by last name): 

- Zach Carlson, zc378@drexel.edu
- Katy Matulay, km3868@drexel.edu
- Jacob Stank, js4977@drexel.edu
- Jacob William, jjw324@drexel.edu

## Project Requirements

- Heroku account
- [MySQL Workbench](https://www.mysql.com/products/workbench/)

## Python Requirements
- Python ≥ 3.8. 
- Python libraries required: 
    - `matplotlib.pylot`
    - `pandas`
    - `ipython-sql`
    - `mysqlclient`
 - `config.py` file (See **Config File** Section)

## How to Execute Notebook: 

**A local database instance must be created in order to execute this Jupyter Notebook.  Replace the connection string in the appropriate cell with your database and login information. (See Database Setup)**  All of the code in this project needs to be opened in a Jupyter notebook environment. We recommend using [Anaconda](https://www.anaconda.com/products/individual).  Additionally, this code can be run in Google Colab or your preferred Python coding environment, assuming folder organization remains unchanged.

## Database Setup:

1. Create a Heroku app with a ClearDB plugin by following this [tutorial](https://youtu.be/aEm0BN493sU).  This tutorial will walk you through setting up your Heroku app, attaching a ClearDB plugin, and accessing the database through MySQL Workbench.  You will be required to add your credit card information, however, if you select the "free" ClearDB tier, **you will not be charged.**  Due to the size of our database, we used the "punch" ClearDB tier.
2. After logging into MySQL Workbench, click `File > Open SQL Script` and open `step01_ddl.sql`.  Select all the text and click the lightning icon to run the selection.
3. After creating the tables, click `File > Open SQL Script` and open `step02_insert_data.sql`.  Select all the text and click the lightning icon to run the selection.  

**NOTE**:  With the free tier of ClearDB you have at most 3,600 queries/hour and a maximum storage space of 1MB.  If you use a truncated version of this data (i.e. 10 rows), you can still replicate it.  However, if you want to use the entire dataset provided, you will need to pay for the "punch" tier.  If you run into issues accessing the database or running queries, you most likely have reached the query or storage capacity cap.

## `config.py` File

You can use a `config.py` to store your database login username and password.  Add this to your `.gitignore` to avoid accidentally committing your login information onto a public repository.


5. In the Configuration section of the Jupyter Notebook, replace the connection string place holder with the information for your MySQL Workbench database.  For example, if the values for `username`, `password`, `localhost`, and `database` are `bbe114f`, `2388`, `us-cdbr-iron-east-02.cleardb.net`, and `heroku_7920e9`, respectively, the connection string filled with database information is written like this:

    ```
    %sql mysql+mysqldb://bbe114f:2388@us-cdbr-iron-east-02.cleardb.net/heroku_7920e9
    ```
    
**NOTE**: If you are creating your own public Github repo, make sure to never commit changes where your connection string is visible.  If you're worried about accidentally commiting the connection string, set your Github repo to private.) 
7. Run the Notebook to produce visualizations. 

## Known Limitations of Project:

Commit message:

Updated database_info.py section

README.md, after:


# Analyzing Health Insurance Data Stored in a PL/SQL MySQL Database

## Project Overview:

This repository was created for the INFO 606 course at Drexel University, Advanced Database Management.  The overall goal of this project was to use Python to analyze health insurance data stored in a PL/SQL database.  This goal was achieved by creating a MySQL database using [Heroku](https://heroku.com) and ClearDB.  This repository contains SQL scripts to create the database locally.  Ensure the MySQL connection string matches your local database.  

## File Manifest: 

- `Folder /documents` - Cotains all miscellaneous documents
- `Folder /sql_scripts` - Contains all SQL scripts for creating database in MySQL Workbench.
    - `step01_ddl.sql` - SQL script to create relational database schema.
    - `step02_insert_data.sql` - SQL script to populate database tables.
- `health_insurance.ipynb` - Main Python/SQL code that analyzes insurance MySQL data.

## Reason for Project:



## Team Members:

Our team consisted of the following individuals (alphabetized by last name): 

- Zach Carlson, zc378@drexel.edu
- Katy Matulay, km3868@drexel.edu
- Jacob Stank, js4977@drexel.edu
- Jacob William, jjw324@drexel.edu

## Project Requirements

- Heroku account
- [MySQL Workbench](https://www.mysql.com/products/workbench/)

## Python Requirements
- Python ≥ 3.8. 
- Python libraries required: 
    - `matplotlib.pylot`
    - `pandas`
    - `sqlalchemy`
 - `database_info.py` file (See **Config File** Section)

## How to Execute Notebook: 

**A local database instance must be created in order to execute this Jupyter Notebook.  Replace the connection string in the appropriate cell with your database and login information. (See Database Setup)**  All of the code in this project needs to be opened in a Jupyter notebook environment. We recommend using [Anaconda](https://www.anaconda.com/products/individual).  Additionally, this code can be run in Google Colab or your preferred Python coding environment, assuming folder organization remains unchanged.

## Database Setup:

1. Create a Heroku app with a ClearDB plugin by following this [tutorial](https://youtu.be/aEm0BN493sU).  This tutorial will walk you through setting up your Heroku app, attaching a ClearDB plugin, and accessing the database through MySQL Workbench.  You will be required to add your credit card information, however, if you select the "free" ClearDB tier, **you will not be charged.**  Due to the size of our database, we used the "punch" ClearDB tier.
2. After logging into MySQL Workbench, click `File > Open SQL Script` and open `step01_ddl.sql`.  Select all the text and click the lightning icon to run the selection.
3. After creating the tables, click `File > Open SQL Script` and open `step02_insert_data.sql`.  Select all the text and click the lightning icon to run the selection.  

**NOTE**:  With the free tier of ClearDB you have at most 3,600 queries/hour and a maximum storage space of 1MB.  If you use a truncated version of this data (i.e. 10 rows), you can still replicate it.  However, if you want to use the entire dataset provided, you will need to pay for the "punch" tier.  If you run into issues accessing the database or running queries, you most likely have reached the query or storage capacity cap.

## `database_info.py` File

You can use a `database_info.py` to store your database connection string.  Add this to your `.gitignore` to avoid accidentally committing your login information onto a public repository.  Simply replace the `<>` variable placeholders with your login information.

## Known Limitations of Project:
